[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to the "Beyond Belief."
George Noory with you, and our
special guest is Ben Stewart.
Ben is back with us.
He is the conscious filmmaker,
public speaker, musician.
He has a production company
called Talismanic Idols,
and it's designed
to awaken the world
into very practical things that
are happening on this planet.
Ben, welcome.
>>BEN STEWART:
Thank you so much.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: You're one of
our favorites, by the way.
>>STEWART: All right.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you're
one of the good guys.
>>STEWART: OK well, that's
definitely where my heart is.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: Former military?
>>STEWART: Yep, six
years Air Force.
>>NOORY: What got you to
get into the Air Force?
>>STEWART: Oh man, that was the
one day of my life I woke up,
and all my friends
were going to college,
and I was like, what am I
going to do with my life?
And it was actually
a freak out moment,
and I basically told my dad I
wanted to join the military.
He said, OK, we'll
talk about it tonight.
I said, no, I want
to enlist today.
>>NOORY: And you went.
Well, thanks for serving.
>>STEWART: You're welcome.
>>NOORY: Nine years Navy
for me, as you know,
and it was a great experience.
>>STEWART: Well,
thank you for serving.
>>NOORY: You know, and then
it's just always recognize
our troops, wherever I go.
>>STEWART: Absolutely
>>NOORY: You know
what, and good for you.
How did you get involved
into psychedelics which is
our subject on our show today?
>>STEWART: So when I was 14.
>>NOORY: Tell us the truth now.
>>STEWART: I'll do
my best with that.
When I was 14, actually, a
lot of my friends in school
were getting into the harder
more opioids, the pain pills,
and even heroin and cocaine.
>>NOORY: Oh gosh.
>>STEWART: And that
never appealed to me.
>>NOORY: Smart
>>STEWART: Yeah, but a lot
of my friends are doing it,
and I probably would have
ended up going down that road,
had I not tried psilocybin
mushrooms for the first time.
And what that did for me was,
A, it tapped me into nature,
because I did it in
the woods, and B,
it caused me to feel like
something was being expanded.
And what I recognized
from everything else was
it felt like it would dull or
turn the dial down rather than
open you up to more
of your reality.
>>NOORY: Kind of calm
you down a little bit?
>>STEWART: Well, that's probably
what the opioids would do,
and the psilocybin, it
calmed down a part of me.
But it also it
opened up something,
to where I was able to actually
feel the beingness of trees
and plants and animals around.
>>NOORY: Was is like
a, oh wow, effect?
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
Yeah, and it was the
reason why I actually
started going into the pathway
of a conscious or spiritual
path.
I believe if I would have
gone down any other pathway,
I probably wouldn't have
opened up like that,
and I probably wouldn't be
sitting here in this chair.
>>NOORY: You could have
been down the wrong path.
>>STEWART: A lot of my
friends went down that path,
and a lot of them
aren't here today.
>>NOORY: That's sad.
How did you find the mushrooms?
>>STEWART: At this point,
I was not a cook yet.
I was a dishwasher, and some
of the cooks were older.
I was 14, and they
were 18, 19, 20.
>>NOORY: You worked
early, didn't you?
>>STEWART: I did, and
I just asked them.
I was like, are you able
to get me mushrooms?
And one of them said,
yes, and they got me--
and ate the mushrooms.
I split it with my friends.
We went into the woods,
and it was really
an eye-opening
experience for me.
Everything I'd heard
up to that point
was these are a drug
is a drug is a drug.
You take drugs, and you
should feel bad about it,
and so that was why we
went off into the woods,
to hide to do it.
But I instantly realized.
I was like, this is
not what other people
will classify as drugs.
This is not something
that's harming my body,
and for me, I felt that
it was definitely going
to be my pathway for a while.
And I stopped, obviously,
when I went into the military,
and then shortly after that,
it stopped being recreational.
So I read about ayahuasca
for the first time,
and within a month, I
flew down to the Amazon,
and I was with a shaman called
Don Rober outside of Iquitos,
and I was doing ayahuasca.
>>NOORY: Wow, you tried
everything, just about.
>>STEWART: Yeah, Yeah,
that was what it was.
It opened me up to
wanting to try as much
of these specific
plants as I could.
>>NOORY: The people who are
watching the show right now,
you're not recommending
they run out and get
psychedelics and start.
Right?
>>STEWART: No, absolutely not.
A lot of people ask
me, are they dangerous?
And I would say, well, there's
inherent risk in everything--
>>NOORY: Everything
is dangerous.
>>STEWART: You can drink too
much water and die from it.
So what I would say is
these are very powerful.
And if you do it in the
right set and setting,
the way our ancestors have
all the way back as far as we
can trace them, if you do in
the right set and setting,
this brings community together.
This enacts healing.
It causes for us to
think more open-mindedly.
It breaks down the
conditioning of our culture.
So it can be done in a
very, very beautiful way.
But nowadays, the way that we
look at it, if it's a drug,
and you have to hide
in a back alley,
and it's not a good set and
setting, then of course,
it's not going to be good.
You can traumatize
yourself by doing it.
So I wouldn't recommend
it, but if you're already
considering doing it, the
only thing I would recommend
is find somebody who can guide
you in doing it correctly.
Doing it in a way where
it will be spiritual,
and it will also be healing.
>>NOORY: Psychedelic researchers
Graham Hancock and Stan Grof
looked at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Well, the possibility
has to be considered
that what the
psychedelics are doing
is retuning the receiver
wavelength of the brain
and actually allowing
us to gain access
to veridical alternative
realities, parallel dimensions.
- We have the same
situation in the television.
We would laugh if somebody would
study that said then go down
to molecular level of the
transistors and the wires
and would believe that
this gives you explanation
why you get the Mickey
Mouse cartoon at 7 o'clock
in the evening.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Both were appearing on
the Gaia show "Psychedelica,"
and Graham Hancock specifically
has investigated psychedelics
deeply for a long time.
Hasn't he?
>>STEWART: That's right.
Yeah, and he also traces it
back as far as we can go.
He did this book
called "Supernatural,"
where he's speaking about
all of his experiences
in psychedelics, but he's also
following around this guy,
David Lewis Williams.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>STEWART: And
David Lewis Williams
was the guy who was finding all
the ancient rock and cave art
that you can date back to
40,000, 50,000 years ago,
sometimes even farther.
And what they're
finding is that these
are the first time
that man started
externalizing their
mind, that we know of,
and actually painting it
onto rock and cave walls,
and it's not just mundane things
that they're painting on there.
They're actually painting
shamanic experiences
of transforming into
hybrid creatures.
So they call them
therianthropes, man and animal
hybrids.
And so what they've surmised,
even David Lewis Williams--
who's not into psychedelics,
doesn't believe they're good--
he was even saying that
this is absolute proof
that psychedelics and altered
states of consciousness
were inherent in
the human experience
all the way back
to this time when
art first started coming out
and we, in a sense, came online.
>>NOORY: And how
far back, of course?
Let's look at a clip
from "Psychedelica."
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- The debate about soma and
haoma, the origins of them,
has changed lately because
of archaeological finds
and one of the
really important ones
is the work of the Russian
archaeologist Victor Sarianidi.
He wrote about this
in his book "Margiana
and Protozoroastrism,"
and Sarianidi
was doing work in the outer
regions of Afghanistan,
in an area known as the
Bactria-Margiana Archaeological
Complex.
And in this region, he found
a number of temple sites,
and these were big temples,
about the size of a football
field.
And half of the
temple sites were
dedicated to the preparation of
this beverage, which Sarianidi
has identified as soma-haoma,
the sacred beverage
of the Persians and
the ancient Indians.
- It is still debated whether
this lost city of Gonur Tepe
had a supreme ruler or simply
an elite class and high priest.
In many ways, the priests
of larger civilizations
mirrored the role of the
predecessor, the shaman.
- So the shaman, in
the traditional role,
is basically a liaison for
the community to this realm
of the supernatural.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So you're right,
Ben, this goes way, way back.
Doesn't it?
>>STEWART: It really does,
and actually what we just saw,
the Bactria-Margiana
Archaeological Complex,
is 4,000 years old, and this
wasn't just a temple complex
where they did psychedelics.
This was right in
present day Uzbekistan,
right on the Silk
Road, and so they
found these large vats,
where they were making--
>>NOORY: It's the
manufacturing plant, right?
>>STEWART: It is
manufacturing plant
of what you would call soma and
also the Iranian version of it,
which is haoma.
And these are
ancient psychedelics,
but you'll hear about them
in the ancient scripts,
saying that these are
the nectars of the gods,
and there's something
to that as well.
But what they found,
Victor Sarianidi
found, was he took
scraping samples
and found three
discernible plants
from this ancient
temple complex,
which one was cannabis.
Another one was poppy
which we get opium from,
and another one was ephedra,
which we get methamphetamines
from.
But this was the natural
plant versions mixed together
in a psychedelic compound,
really a cocktail.
>>NOORY: A concoction.
Right?
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: I wonder if anybody
died from these things.
What do you think?
>>STEWART: It's
really hard to know.
>>NOORY: ODing on them.
>>STEWART: Well, you can't OD
on cannabis, the same thing
as you would get from eating
too much of a certain food.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>STEWART: So there's
no toxicity to that.
There would be some
in opium or poppy,
and there would be some
a little bit in Ephedra.
But in the right amount, it
would turn into basically
like a cocktail, like
a different symphony
of psychedelic or
psychotropic effects.
This was part of their religion.
>>NOORY: Ephedra, is that
how they got epinephrine,
the adrenaline-type booster?
>>STEWART: It's closely
related, in that sense.
Ephedra is the name of the
actual plant, and we know this.
Like truckers will take effort
to stay up late at night
as they're driving
through the country.
So it's a stimulant.
Poppy seems to sedate
the nervous system,
and cannabis has a
psychedelic-like effect.
So together, it would create
this really interesting
combination of effects,
and they would use
this in religious ceremonies.
And this is possibly,
a lot of people
such as one of the guys you
saw here, Chris Bennett,
believes that this was
really the origin of Moses'
experiences and a lot of the
ancient biblical patriarchs.
They were having
these experiences
based on these plants that
they were communing with.
>>NOORY: So when Moses went
up to get the 10 Commandments
from God, maybe he was
on some psychedelic,
and maybe it didn't
happen that way.
>>STEWART: Some say that
the burning bush was either
an Acacia which has DMT, or
dimethyltryptamine in it which
is a psychedelic, or it
was the cannabis bush.
And a lot of this has been taken
out, revised out of the Bible.
And also possibly a big
reason as to why we actually
went to all the
witch hunts and where
we're kind of demonizing people
who knew the plant kingdom,
knew how to use
these plants, discern
what their properties are.
And the more that you go back
and you look at the nuances,
the official stories
that we've been fed in
school just don't
seem to add up.
>>NOORY: You had
just mentioned DMTs.
Explain again what that is,
and where does it come from?
>>STEWART: So
dimethyltryptamine, it
is the most powerful
psychedelic you can take,
and it's very peculiar among
the other psychedelics,
and I'll explain
that in a second.
But where it comes from, you
can find it in Phalaris grass.
You can find it in many grasses.
It comes in all the different
kinds of Acacia trees.
There's frogs that produce it,
possibly other animals as well,
and we produce it
inside of our own body.
That's the most
peculiar thing about it
is we don't know why DMT
is produced in the body,
and we don't know why
such a trace amount is
produced in the body.
But the most peculiar
thing about it
is the fact that the two
biggest theories out there
is it's either prenatal
neurotransmitter,
or it's an ancestral one.
If it's prenatal, it means
that when we were in the womb,
we were actually
in the DMT state.
Then, you come out
of the womb, and it's
replaced by serotonin
which creates the consensus
world that we call reality.
If it's an ancestral
neurotransmitter,
then that means our
ancestors, such as Moses
and all the biblical patriarchs,
would have actually produced
higher amounts of DMT.
So they may have
been just naturally
in more of this state
than we are today.
And they say that our pineal
gland might produce it,
and our pineal gland has
atrophied over the centuries,
I would say.
So it's very possible that we
are not living the same reality
that our ancestors did.
>>NOORY: Here's another clip
from "Psychedelica" about DMT.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- The hot topic that has
emerged from DMT studies is
the recurring theme of
the well-ordered structure
of the place it seems to
send people and the feelings
of entities
inhabiting this space.
There are accounts
of this happening
through the DMT-containing
brew ayahuasca as well.
There are sparse accounts
of other psychedelic plants
transporting people's
minds to other places
to visit other worldly beings.
Even psychological
illness has been
known to show similar traits.
However, it is the sheer amount
of reports from DMT alone
and the peculiar realness
of this space and the beings
that cause for a deeper interest
in this compound's effects
on consciousness.
Author and psychedelic
researcher Graham Hancock
has poured over the
DMT trip reports
and found correlations
with shamanic reports
of altered or expanded states.
- They experience encounters
with supernatural beings,
as they construed them.
Those supernatural beings
may communicate with them
telepathically.
This is very common in
the shamanistic trance.
They may give them teachings,
and very often, they'll
have a therianthropic
appearance.
They will be part
animal and part human.
- Sometimes, they
were malevolent,
frightening, scary, threatening.
They hurt people.
Other times the
beings, or with those
things they encountered
that they call beings,
were beneficence.
They did healing.
They gave advice some
predicted or showed volunteers
the future.
Some were examining
the volunteers.
Some were putting things
into their bodies,
but one of the hallmarks
of the interaction
was the strength
of those beings.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So what do you
think the future is, Ben,
for psychedelics?
Are more and more people going
to be experimenting and trying
these?
>>STEWART: I can't
really say about that.
The one thing that I do know
is that we're not coming up
with new psychedelics.
They're the same things
of that nature gave us.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>STEWART: But it seems, the
way that it's kind of heading
is it's more of a
technological future.
There's electrodes.
There's implants.
There's lasers that can actually
light up parts of the brain
and actually induce
psychedelic-like experiences.
There's also gene editing.
So I said that DMT is
produced inside the body.
So you could use
CRISPR/Cas technology
to go down to the gene
level and actually
either turn off the DMT gene
or turn it on in hyper-drive.
And "DMT, The Spirit Molecule"
author that we just saw,
Rick Strassman, he
actually believes,
or he was at least
postulating, that if we
were to edit the genes to be
able to cause us to produce
more DMT, we might
actually start
experiencing the world closer
to what our ancestors did.
>>NOORY: And you
might be able to do
things like telepathy and
strange things like that.
Who knows?
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
There's a book called
"Questions for the Lion Tamer"
that really poses
those questions.
Is more DMT actually the cause
for things like telepathy,
telekinesis, some of the
things that even happen
within the animal kingdom.
Such as cubs being
able to communicate
with their mother or their
parents from miles away,
to where like their
voice wouldn't
be able to capture that.
Or indigenous on the hunt
miles away, and the tribe
knows when they've
captured something.
These are things that
there's too many accounts
to just push to the side.
We know that there is, in
these shamanic experiences,
the shamans believe
that they are
traveling to another
dimension from their body.
We know the parts of the brain,
the temporal-parietal junction,
that break down on psychedelics
that allow for this component,
for us to actually be
able to leave our bodies.
Some say that it's just a
breakdown in our consciousness,
but I believe it's
a correlation.
This is what you'll see
neurologically when you're
actually leaving your body.
>>NOORY: Ben, where
does LSD fit in to this?
>>STEWART: So LSD,
a lot of people
think it's just the chemical.
It's actually not.
It comes from the ergot fungus,
and what has to happen with--
>>NOORY: And so
that's natural too.
>>STEWART: It is, but
what you have to do,
ergot is actually poisonous.
So you actually have to
take it through a process
to only get the tryptamine
alkaloid that is psychedelic
and to take out all
the toxins, basically.
>>NOORY: If you
don't, you're dead.
>>STEWART: Absolutely,
but have you
heard the Eleusinian Mysteries?
>>NOORY: No, tell me about that.
>>STEWART: These
Greek mystery schools
that Aristotle, Plato, Marcus
Tullius Cicero, Socrates,
for 2,000 years, this was like
a Burning Man type festival,
but they would do psychedelics.
And it went on for 2,000 years.
That's a long time, and they
had a beverage called kykeon,
and now they believe--
Graham Hancock also
believes-- that this
is Claviceps paspali which
has the ergot fungus on it.
And they would do a water rinse,
and the water-soluble toxins
would go away, and then
what you do I have left over
is this psychedelic
LSD-like compound.
And so they were
using this compound
in their mystery rights.
They would go underground,
into the Telesterion caves,
and they would do
these shamanic rituals.
And for the initiates,
the ones who
are endowed with the
secret history of humanity
and this planet,
they would go down,
and they would have
these sonic rituals,
where they would be
chanting in these caves.
You would drink this beverage.
You would have this experience,
and then you would be--
kind of in the same way that
our secret societies do--
you would be allowed into the
higher echelons of government.
>>NOORY: Why is there this need
for humans to use psychedelics?
What are we missing in
order for that to happen?
>>STEWART: I think the main
thing that we're missing
is our capacity to
think for ourselves.
Our educational system
tells us what to think.
They don't teach
us how to think.
We've lost our ability to
critically think about things,
and so we're given our patterns.
We don't develop
our own patterns
by play or by exploration.
We're given our
patterns, and then we're
told to stay within that.
And then we're governed
and policed by other people
to kind of stay within the
norm or the narrative that's
given to us.
So I think what
psychedelics do, the same
as what Burning Man does,
the same as what vacations
and the need to go off and
do vipassana or a meditation
retreat or even just
go off into the woods,
is altered states
of consciousness
is really what
we're talking about.
Because if you're always in
one mode of consciousness,
your neurology is going to start
to deteriorate and atrophy,
because we're meant to
constantly learn until we die.
We're not meant to just learn
something and then repeat it
until we die.
So the beauty of psychedelics
is it's the most reliable way
to break down our
patterning and to cause us
to see the world in a new way.
And neurologically,
we know this.
We see that in the brainstem,
the locus coeruleus, it flashes
or it fires every time that
we see something new, what
they call novelty or salience.
But you could be looking at
your hand, something that's
very mundane, on psychedelics,
it'll be flashing,
because you're seeing this
thing as if you're seeing it
for the first time.
And what's really
happening is it also
breaks us out of
this default mode
network, which is
our daydreaming
network inside the brain.
So it floods the present moment
with more conscious awareness,
and this is what all
the spiritual traditions
have been trying to
do in the first place.
Because this world,
we may think it's
that every day you wake
up it's the same world,
but it's really not.
We see it that way,
because our patterning
allows us to see only
those things that we have
predictability built around.
But if we were to actually
wash our brains back down to--
not wash the capacity to
take in new information,
but just take all
the patterning down.
Then, we would see that
this world is actually just
condensed, tiny vibrations.
And really it's our
command, through our DNA
and our conscious
attention, that
actually causes for these
vibrations to be able to alter.
And this is what causes
for these rifts in reality
for us to be able to
astral project, go
into different realms.
And as you saw Graham Hancock
and Rick Strassman talking
about, communicate with pan
dimensional beings, possibly
alien beings from another
world or another dimension.
>>NOORY: Now, how
would that work?
How would you
communicate with an ET
by being in this
psychedelic realm?
>>STEWART: Well,
so much of the trip
reports, there's thousands
of DMT trip reports.
And I have to make
mention to the fact
that DMT seems to be
in a class on its own,
aside from all the
other psychedelics,
because all the
they seem to warp this world.
What DMT does is it
seems to, once you
break through this wall.
>>NOORY: Magnifies it.
Doesn't it?
>>STEWART: What it does is it
transports you to another very
structured reality.
So it's not like just a
warped, amorphous reality
that you're in.
It's a very structured other
reality, and the beings
that we come in
contact with there,
we know that they are
extremely intelligent, far
more intelligent than we are.
They sense our presence.
Sometimes, they do things
that you would hear about
in alien abductions,
like probing you,
strapping you to a table.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>STEWART: Implanting
things inside you.
Sometimes, they're benevolent,
and they impart you
with great wisdom.
Sometimes, they're not.
Sometimes, they abuse you.
Sometimes, they're
just bothered by you.
They're indifferent, but they
don't want you in their space.
They tell you
never to come back.
This is extremely peculiar, and
so now what people are saying
is that DMT is also
strange, because it's only
a 15 minute high.
Whereas, everything else is
six, eight, sometimes 12 hours.
15 minutes, and you're back.
You're completely normal.
You can hold down
a conversation.
>>NOORY: What brings
you back like that then?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>STEWART: Your body metabolizes
it so quickly and efficiently.
There's no toxicity.
There's no tolerance.
So now, what people
are saying, one
of the technological
futures of DMT
is to be able to actually
hook it up intravenously.
They call it a DMTx.
>>NOORY: Ouch.
>>STEWART: Right.
They call it DMTx or
extended-state DMT,
where you could technically
stay in the peak state
for a very long period of time,
theoretically indefinitely.
Now, the reason is if these
are truly intelligent,
otherworldly beings,
and if some of them
really do want to help us, we
have enough ecological problems
on this planet.
And we seem to not have any
clue of what to do about it,
even though we can
point to industry,
and we can point to the issues.
So what if we need very
large scale solutions
in a very short amount of time?
Well, what if we can
extend this state,
so we can get our
bearings, and we're not
like feeling very like
weird in this other state,
eventually we get our bearings.
Now, we can hold a conversation.
Now, we can actually have a
protocol, and is this contact?
Are we actually talking about
a neurological tool for us
to have contact, where
we don't need a vessel?
This is our light body
being able to connect
with other worldly
beings that might
have solutions that would save
us from ecological disaster.
>>NOORY: There seems to
be this incredible need
for the human body to
explore beyond our own realm,
hence maybe the need
for psychedelics.
>>STEWART: Absolutely,
and I wouldn't
say that we need psychedelics.
I would just say that we
are in a state right now,
modern consciousness
is in a state
where we're so conditioned
by our toys and our gadgets.
It also, the things that
we don't think about
is how that affects
our physical body.
We're always neck forward.
That impinges upon the fascial
system, and that causes for--
our myofascial
system is actually
fiber optic and
the reason why you
can have something graze past
one of your toes in nature,
and you can react to that
before your nervous system
or your brain even
receives the signal.
>>NOORY: Funny you
mentioned that.
I was at the airport yesterday,
heading here from St. Louis,
and everybody, Ben, has
got their smartphones,
and they're all tilted down.
And I mean I looked at a whole
row of people, and I'm going,
are they text
messaging each other?
What's going on here?
But you're right, and they're
always in that position.
Can't be healthy.
>>STEWART: No, and
that's why I believe
the future is
technological really,
because that's what we see.
That's definitely where we're
heading with a virtual reality,
and when we're talking about
psychedelics, what we're really
talking about is an altered
state of consciousness.
Well, that's what all the
technology is doing for us.
It's putting us into
an alternate reality.
And so what people
are saying now
is that the extended-state
DMT, that technology
and also biology
fusing for us to be
able to enter a different world.
Well, we know that
if an asteroid were
to hit the planet, our
genes would start expressing
themselves differently.
>>NOORY: We're in trouble.
>>STEWART: Right, but we adapt.
Our genes adapt,
and they do this.
We mutate when we experience
environmental stress,
and what that's doing
is that's causing
for us to be able to
develop a way to deal
with a new kind of world.
Well, what if we're
in the DMT world?
What if we're in an alien world,
because the DMT is allowing
an aspect of us to travel?
So what happens if
we're in that world
for a long period of time, like
the extended-state DMT would
allow us?
Will we start adapting to
those rules, that reality?
What if gravity,
the speed of light,
what if all the things
that we consider
to be constant in this reality
are different in that reality?
Could we start then
transferring those abilities,
adapting to those
rules back here?
What would that mean for us
if, with our consciousness,
we could slow down
time or speed up
time or start changing the very
fabric of space-time itself?
>>NOORY: What's the downside
of psychedelics, Ben?
>>STEWART: The downside
of psychedelics
is you seen people going
down into the Amazon,
and they're doing ayahuasca
ceremony after ayahuasca
ceremony, and they're never
integrating the experience.
>>NOORY: They seem happy.
>>STEWART: Some of them do.
Some of them do,
but some of them
seem lost into the world of it,
and like I need my ayahuasca
to feel normal.
What does that sound like?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>STEWART: That sounds like
just another addiction, just
another reason to
use an externality
to make us feel normal.
So I would say the downside
is the fact that there
are a lot of people that feel
like they're uber spiritual,
feel like they're on
some spiritual path, when
really all they're doing is
they're taking psychedelics day
in, day out.
And they're entering
into this world,
but they never come back
into the consensus world,
and here's why that's
very important.
There's Samael Aun Weor.
He was a Mexican Gnostic.
He believed he was
the reincarnation
of the archangel
Samael, and so he
believed he was a bodhisattva.
And the difference between
a bodhisattva and a nirvani,
or somebody who
reaches nirvana, is
somebody who reaches
nirvana and just wants
to stay in that beautiful,
pristine, heaven-like state,
what they're doing is
they're not entering back
into what we would consider to
be this world, where there's
hell on Earth in many ways.
There's also heaven on
Earth, but if you do not
enter yourself back
into the suffering,
if you do not enter yourself
back into the consensus world
that everybody is
involved in, then you're
not helping humanity.
And the thing is is I'm
not pro-psychedelics.
I'm not pro anything except
for serving our fellow man,
doing something with real
solutions on this planet.
And that means the reason why I
would ever suggest psychedelics
is not so you could
do something that
affects your consciousness, so
you can get this weird tickle.
I'm talking about
let's find solutions,
so we can figure out why more
than half the population has
dietary issues.
Many people can't
even get clean water,
while eight people in the world
own more wealth than a majority
of the other people.
This is just not sane--
>>NOORY: --Welcome to the world.
It's nuts.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: Can you
over-ingest psychedelics?
>>STEWART: You can
over-ingest them,
in the sense where you will
have a very psychologically
terrifying experience, because
it's such a new type of world.
Imagine we have a
filtration system,
so not all of the information
in the field around us
actually bombards
our nervous systems.
So we filter it down.
What happens when you take
psychedelics is you're
actually opening up
that filter, and you're
exposed to more information.
More information is
good, but the reason
why you don't tell children
about, like early on,
about sex and death and some of
the most horrible and heinous
things
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>STEWART: Is because they
can't process it all at once.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: It's too much for them.
>>STEWART: And that's why we
have such a thing called time.
>>NOORY: It's too much for most
adults, to tell you the truth.
>>STEWART: You're
very right about that,
and that's because much
of the time we're trying
to dumb down our consciousness.
We're trying to close that
filter back off to us.
So can you over-ingest it?
Yes, in the sense where
you can open yourself up
to so much information
it could be traumatizing,
but there's very
little toxicity.
You would have to
take so much of it
that you would pass out
before you would even
notice a hangover the next day.
This is true for
cannabis as well
which is not really
a psychedelic,
and there's also no toxicity.
In fact, we're constantly
told this narrative
that psychedelics are these hard
narcotics, and they're drugs,
and you should feel
bad about taking them.
But what we're finding is that
people are actually curing--
whatever that word means--
their depression, their anxiety,
their opioid addictions,
their addictions to
alcohol, their addictions
to many other things.
Psychedelics are
actually bringing back
that patterning down
to a base state,
so they can actually
see that there's
more to life than
this dopamine pathway
that they've been triggered by.
>>NOORY: Can we reach
these states, Ben,
without using
these psychedelics?
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
I think our shamans--
>>NOORY: How do you do that?
>>STEWART: Have been doing
that since the beginning
through dancing, throughout the
night without drinking water.
There's breathing
exercises you can do.
Actually, there's a guy named
Wim Hof that has a breathing
technique that actually many
of the people who are actually
speaking about their
experiences are saying, OK,
I've done psychedelics before.
And this is a psychedelic
state, but I've
done nothing except for breathe.
And so I actually
recommend people
enter into the psychedelic
realm, or the territory,
without doing the substances,
because A, at present, they're
still illegal, and B, oxygen
is free and still legal,
at this point.
>>NOORY: So far.
>>STEWART: So far.
So you can breathe
yourself into these states.
You can actually do things
like chanting or drumming,
movement practices.
This is why I do
a lot of movement
in nature, because I believe
this is what our evolution has
prepared us for.
And if we're going to
arrive at any solutions
through psychedelics, or
psychedelic-like states,
it's going to happen in nature.
It's going to
happen in communion
with the natural world.
>>NOORY: Well, you
mentioned Wim Hof.
Let's look at his
techniques, especially
the breathing techniques.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Last time, I
saw like an image.
- Yep.
Nice.
- I saw am image in my mind.
- That's DMT.
- Yeah, it was like.
- Dimethyltryptamine, natural.
- Yeah.
It was originally like--
like a tree branch.
It was like a tree
like spreading out,
like it was like
a bunch of like--
I can't explain
the type of tree.
- But it was nice, eh?
- And then it
turned into an eye.
- Wow.
- Almost like an eagle eye.
- Man, he is tripping.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
- And then it turned into
a phoenix like flying.
- Wow!
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
- It was like.
- He was tripping, man.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
- Like screaming,
and it was like,
it turned into like a phoenix.
It was unbelievable.
I was like, is this
supposed to happen or what?
- Amazing.
Yep.
Whatever is in your mind
you go into the dream state.
- Wow.
- You know, the dream
state is the deepest.
- Yeah.
- And rapid eye
movement level state.
- Yep.
- That's in your deepest of
sleep, and you have no control.
Now, you control it.
You learn to tap in.
- Yeah.
- And the functionality of it is
to release whatever is inside.
- Wow.
- Blotting.
And that's DMT for the
deepest of the brain,
and we now found
the access into it.
- Amazing.
- And that's what
you experienced.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So what do you
think of that guy, Wim Hof?
>>STEWART: I've
actually met him.
My wife's family is Dutch.
>>NOORY: Is that what he is?
>>STEWART: Yeah.
So I've actually
been to his house.
I trained in his pool in
the middle of January.
>>NOORY: Isn't it cold?
>>STEWART: It was very
cold, and so that's
why they call him the Iceman.
Because his breathing
technique is really
to tap into the autonomic
nervous system, which doctors
have told us is impossible.
But when you tap into it through
these breathing techniques,
you can regulate your
thermal temperature.
But what also seems to
happen is you also get this,
as he was saying, this
endogenous DMT dump,
and so that causes for a
very psychedelic-like state.
And as you saw, the guy
who was interviewing him
was talking about his experience
which sounds much like a DMT
trip, in that sense.
So what I would say
is a lot of people
are fascinated by the visuals
and just the trippiness of it.
And I think really what we need
to do as a culture is get over
that baseline of,
oh, it feels weird,
and I experienced all
these crazy things.
Once we get past that, it's
like you can read a book,
but if you have no way of
embodying the wisdom in it, who
cares.
It's not really--
>>NOORY: Ben, is this legal
or illegal to do this?
>>STEWART: Well, the breathing
technique is completely legal.
>>NOORY: Well, that's
free, of course.
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
So the breathing technique
is completely free,
but if you were to want
to do dimethyltryptamine,
even though it's produced
inside of our very bodies,
it's illegal.
>>NOORY: It's illegal.
>>STEWART: It's schedule I.
It's the most illegal out of all
the scheduling,
for all the drugs.
>>NOORY: What about ayahuasca?
If you had ayahuasca in your
car, and you're driving,
you're going to get pulled over.
>>STEWART: Yeah.
Don't do that, by the
way, unless you're part
of a Native American church.
>>NOORY: Kids, don't
do this at home.
>>STEWART: So ayahuasca, the
main active ingredient in it
is dimethyltryptamine which
comes from these Chacruna
leaves.
The ayahuasca vine actually
has an MAOI inhibitor,
because if you were
to just eat DMT,
your liver would break it down.
You would never
experience anything.
So you need this other
component to it to, in a sense,
mix with it, so it can pass
the blood-brain barrier
and actually give you
a six-hour experience
of dimethyltryptamine with
these other botanicals.
And the most peculiar
thing about it
is how did the
shamans know this?
In the Amazon, there's
so many different species
that you would win the
lottery twice before you ever
come across this combination.
>>NOORY: That's a long time.
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
So how did they
figured this out?
And I believe it's
because they were actually
producing more endogenous DMT.
Endogenously just means
that we produce it
in our own body
instead of having
to get that very same
neurochemical endogenously,
from an outside source.
When the ethnobotanists,
in the early parts
of the 1900s or late
1800s, were asking,
how did you know to combine
these plants to gather
this experience?
They said, the plants told us,
and not only, they don't talk,
they sing which is
a higher art form.
It's a higher faculty
of communication.
So everywhere,
peyotes, peyote shamans
would say that they
found out that this
was a psychedelic cacti,
because it sang to them.
And many other
people, many other
like witches or herbalists--
>>NOORY: Too bad
we can't record it.
>>STEWART: Absolutely.
It would be amazing.
Actually, we're starting
to get to the point
where there is a technology
that can not just
show the photons that are
being emitted by plants
but actually pick up on
some of the resonance.
Everything inside of our
body, our muscles, everything
is vibrating, and
there is a tone to it.
We hear things on a
different spectrum.
If we were able to hear it, if
you were able to amplify that--
and also slow it down, because
they hear things far faster
than we do--
it would sound like a symphony.
It would actually sound
like it's being sung to you,
and tone can actually
match to color
and actually has a mathematical
equation evolved in it.
So what we're
actually talking about
is in nature is structured a
language that speaks before we
even arrived on this planet.
So if you tap back into your
ancestry, and that's all
I believe these
plants are doing.
It's not taking
you somewhere else.
It's bringing you deeper--
>>NOORY: Bringing you back.
>>STEWART: Within,
and everyone who
I've ever met, that's done
psychedelics in the right way,
they say, this was familiar.
I felt like I was coming home.
I remember this space.
I remember this feeling, and I
was experiencing my ancestors,
and I remember now that life is
one continual phenomenon, inner
and outer, past,
present, and future.
That's what they're
experiencing.
>>NOORY: How can we
naturally increase
the DMT in our systems, which
you said is very minimal?
How can you naturally do that?
>>STEWART: I think
what we have to do
is we need to understand
more of our ancestral diets,
our ancestral movement.
And we need to understand
that every one of us,
we have bacteria in the gut.
We actually have 99% of our
genetic makeup is microbial.
It's not even human, and so we--
our body, what we call a
human being, Ben and George--
we are actually an extension
of the microbial kingdom.
The plant kingdom
is an extension
of the microbial
kingdom, and we produce
the same neurotransmitters
as the plant kingdom.
I believe that we are actually
an extension of the plant
kingdom.
So we turn our roots inside.
We put food inside, so we
can move around the Earth
and gather experience
more quickly,
and that's all this is.
That's even what computers are
as data processing at quicker
and more efficient rates.
So how can we produce it more?
I believe we need to
get our fascial system,
our connective tissue, back
into fiber optic health.
Because when we sit
8, 9, 12 hours a day,
our fascia gums up,
and it sticks together,
and it's no longer fiber optic.
We're not sharing information
at light speed anymore.
We don't have natural
diets anymore.
Our food isn't even as
natural as, let's say,
the oranges and the
apples and all the berries
that our ancestors ate, because
we're tilling the ground.
We're severing
biological connections.
>>NOORY: Poorly fertilized.
>>STEWART: Absolutely, and
we're lowering biodiversity.
The thing is is like, the
more diversity that we
can experience-- and this is
why we move around the world
is so we can gather more
diverse information,
and that's what our plants
are not experiencing.
So our food is dimwitted.
We're becoming
dimwitted because--
and this is on a mass scale.
This is everybody.
So the best thing that we
could do to actually produce
more DMT in our body--
if that's what we're
going for, which
for me, I believe I
want to tap into reality
a lot more than I am now.
So we need to move
more naturally.
We need to move
more uninhibitedly.
We need to breathe
more naturally,
the same thing the
yogis are telling us.
We need to be more humble.
We need to realize that
other people in our world
are actually going to teach
us, and everyone has a lesson,
and we need to be serving.
>>NOORY: Not everybody
thinks that way.
>>STEWART: No, not
everybody does,
and I believe that that's
a product of our culture
and our civilization.
>>NOORY: So what do you see
as the future for humanity?
What's going to happen to us?
>>STEWART: I think we're
moving in the direction
of artificial intelligence at a
rate in which the mass majority
has no idea what the
actual effects of that are.
>>NOORY: That may
not be a good thing.
>>STEWART: It may
not, and the thing
is this technology is a tool,
and so what we need to look at
is it's a very powerful tool.
Now, who is at the helm
of wielding that tool?
I'm not.
You're not.
>>NOORY: Is it God?
>>STEWART: I wouldn't
say it's God.
I would say it's a specific
grouping of families,
and I would say that--
let's just take a
look at it this way.
If you were to take a
look at Silicon Valley,
this is the major high-tech
hub for the world,
and a lot of the
artificial intelligence
is coming out of this area.
This is on the heels of
the psychedelic revolution,
and people like
Timothy Leary, who
was a big advocate
for psychedelics.
>>NOORY: He was hated
by people in his day.
>>STEWART: Very much so.
>>NOORY: Richard
Nixon thought he was
one of the worst people ever.
>>STEWART: He was
public enemy number one.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>STEWART: For sure, because he
was talking about psychedelics,
but at the end of
his authorship,
he was talking about
artificial intelligence.
So I believe that there
is something about how
psychedelics were hijacked.
They used to be called
sacred plant medicines.
They were medicines.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>STEWART: They were used for
healing since the dawn of time,
and then in a blink of an eye,
in our evolutionary time scale,
they turned into psychedelics.
They turn into this
thing that makes
you have these wild experiences
and become promiscuous and want
to drop out and leave your
job and walk around barefoot.
That was really, I
think, more of a product
of what the media was telling
us psychedelics are doing.
And then on the
tail end of that--
because the CIA definitely
got very into psychedelics
and how it could be
used for brainwashing.
>>NOORY: They sure did.
They tested it on people.
>>STEWART: They tested it on
many people, a whole town.
Pont-Saint-Esprit in France
was dosed aerosol LSD.
>>NOORY: Didn't they
have a CIA agent
who jumped out of a window?
>>STEWART: I've heard that,
yeah, out of a window.
I've heard that story
many, many times, and this
was a guy that actually realized
that this isn't working.
What the CIA is
trying to do with it,
what they're finding out,
is that it's actually not
good for brainwashing.
It's harder to brainwash
people once they're
given psychedelics, because
then you're breaking down
their patterning,
and they're starting
to see, what is this matrix?
>>NOORY: Frank Olson was the
guy who jumped out the window.
>>STEWART: That's right.
>>NOORY: I think he went
nuts on LSD or something.
>>STEWART: Well,
that's very possible,
but I think a lot
of those stories
are really media-driven.
They're very exaggerated.
>>NOORY: Maybe he
thought he was a bird?
>>STEWART: Well, I can
say that I've had--
>>NOORY: Is that possible?
>>STEWART: Well, no.
For me, I like-- so
here's what I would say.
Is it that?
Is it the actual
substance, or was it
this person's predisposition?
Because we know that--
>>NOORY: Well, both.
>>STEWART: LSD can exacerbate.
If you have a predisposition
towards schizophrenia,
we know that LSD
can exacerbate that,
but so can almost
getting hit by a car.
So what we're talking
about is this is a tool.
Like I said, it can open you
up to a flood of information,
but if you're not ready for it--
like, we're all going to one day
learn that we are going to die.
But if a child learns
that way too early,
you can traumatize that child.
So in the same way,
is it LSD and only LSD
that's responsible for
people doing stupid things?
No, I don't think
we need to blame
LSD for people
doing stupid things
and harming themselves,
because we see it all
every day without psychedelics.
We see it without
opioids as well.
We see it just with
ideas proliferating
in people's brains.
>>NOORY: Tell me about
"Esoteric Agenda."
>>STEWART: OK, so "Esoteric
Agenda" is a movie
that I made back in 2007.
So this was a film
where I was really
kind of getting into what are
the Cabal, or our overlords,
really planning for us?
Because I noticed that
we're clearcutting trees
which are ecosystems
of intelligence.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>STEWART: That connect
them to the ground.
We're pushing nature
out of our habitats.
In a sense, we're
divorcing ourselves
from nature in every way
imaginable-- our diets,
our movement, our minds.
>>NOORY: And quickly too.
Sadly.
>>STEWART: Very,
very quickly, and so
what I've started noticing,
when I started looking into it,
was there's this thing
called Agenda 21.
And that's basically an agenda
for the UN, under the guise of,
oh look, we're
destroying nature.
>>NOORY: But this is happening.
>>STEWART: This is
happening right now,
and under the guise
of the UN saying,
look, we're destroying
the place, people,
humanity is
destroying the place.
So what we have to do is
eventually move people
into these mega-cities.
And when we move them
into a mega-city,
we can then let nature come
back into its full glory.
Because we people,
we humans, are
the cause of all
the destruction,
and I don't believe that's true.
I don't believe it's all people.
I believe it's a very
select group of people
with a very specific agenda.
And now, because Agenda
21 or sustainable
development started getting
into the public mind,
and people were
like, absolutely not.
You're not shoving 99% of the
population into 1% of the land.
So they're like, OK, we'll
stop calling it Agenda 21.
We'll start calling
it Agenda 2030,
and that's where it's at now.
>>NOORY: "Esoteric
Agenda," we have a clip.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- The sustainable goal
is the elimination
of the middle class.
The world cannot support 6
billion people, but you see,
the plan behind sustainable
development includes population
control.
It's a program for land use
control, education control,
and population control.
The leaders of the
sustainable movement
say that the world's human
population should not
exceed 500 million people.
That's a 93% reduction
of today's population.
In 1992, while the Rio
conference was going on,
George Bush, then
president, was there.
He was just off shore in
Prince Charles's yacht
where he executed the Agenda
21 protocols on behalf
of the United States and brought
it back to Washington, DC.
Within a year, Bill
Clinton, by executive order,
established the
President's Council
for Sustainable Development.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: They want to
eliminate the middle class.
Why?
>>STEWART: Here's why
I believe they want
to eliminate the middle class.
There seems to be this
strife, and the reason
why we've had a
middle class seems
to be because there always
seems to be revolution.
If there's only two classes,
the upper class and the lower
class, without the middle
class, then there's
revolt. But I don't believe that
this select group of people--
like the Bushes, you heard he
was in Prince Charles's yacht--
there's a very small
select group of people.
>>NOORY: They live well.
>>STEWART: They live
very well, and they
have most of the wealth.
They own most of
the land, and they
create most of the
policies that we live by,
whether we choose to or not.
>>NOORY: Which
they don't live by.
>>STEWART: They don't live by
that, because the whole thing
is rigged.
Money does not flow
down to the people.
It always flows up.
Its rigged that way.
It's been proven to
be rigged that way.
So they don't just want to
eliminate the middle class.
I understand where he
was going with that,
but they actually
want to eliminate
much of the population,
because we don't need--
I keep saying we.
It's actually this
small group of people--
don't need seven,
eight billion people,
but they do need a workforce.
So they don't want to eliminate
everybody that's not them.
They just don't need
this amount of people,
because what they
believe that we are are
useless eaters, in that sense.
We're consuming too
much, when really we're
following the protocols
they set in motion,
and so this is,
if you ever heard
David Icke talk about
Problem-Reaction-Solution.
They create a problem.
We react to it, and they're
like, oh, you want a solution?
We have one.
Look, the Patriot Act
was already written.
It seemed to have been
written before 9/11.
So these are the
types of scenarios
where we really have
to start questioning,
what is the endgame?
And I'll tell you what
I think the endgame is.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>STEWART: I think
the endgame is
by using artificial
intelligence saying, listen,
this is artificial.
It's completely unbiased.
It doesn't care if you're
black, white, male, female.
>>NOORY: It's unemotional.
>>STEWART: It's unemotional,
but what it sees
is, oh well look, who's
destroying the planet?
We people, we need to come up
with a protocol to fix this.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to start pushing
people into these
small mega-cities,
let nature go back
to where it was,
when really the outcry for this
is not going to be heard until
after the fact,
because we know--
>>NOORY: It's too late then.
>>STEWART: Tiptoe into tyranny.
And so in that respect, I
think what the endgame is, well
look, this unbiased
intelligence,
this artificial
intelligence, is telling us,
this is what we need to do.
So we just need to hand
it over to this solution.
We all need to, in a sense,
follow this protocol which
is going to allow nature to
bounce back, and we'll be fine,
but we have no understanding.
We already know what
it's done to humanity
by taking hunter-gatherer
groups and putting them
into small civilizations,
putting them
into an unnatural environment,
placing an economic matrix
around it, so people
think differently.
You think in terms of money.
You think in terms
of, like, what am I
going to get for that
thing that you have?
For my time, how much
can I value that?
So one person can afford
food, another person
can't afford food,
and we just call
this the economic
inevitability, when really it's
a rigged system.
So the endgame truly,
in my personal opinion,
is a reduction in
the population,
is a divorce from
our nature, so we
don't ask the relevant
questions until it's too late.
>>NOORY: This is
scary stuff, Ben.
Do you think they're going
to be able to pull this off?
>>STEWART: Do I think
they're capable of it?
Absolutely.
Do I think we're close?
Do I think we have the
capacity to wake up?
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: How do we fight back?
>>STEWART: It's not
through psychedelics.
I'll say that, but
the one thing is is we
do need to find methodologies
by breaking down
the patterning and
the conditioning
of thinking that this is
a normal state of affairs
that we're in.
That thinking that clearcutting
in 15 years a plot of land
the size of Germany in
the Brazilian rainforest
alone is normal.
That destroying and
bringing biodiversity
down to almost zero is normal.
That eating things
that are not natural,
that are closer to
cardboard and closer
to cyanide than actual food
that our ancestors used to eat.
Thinking that all of this is
normal, what we need to do
is really start coming
together as a community,
because more than psychedelics,
more than breathing techniques,
more than yoga, more than almost
anything except meditation,
community is our mirror.
Our neighbors are going to be
the ones that are telling us,
you're out of line.
You're not thinking correctly.
You're not thinking soberly.
We need to come together.
We need to actually
do something.
We're destroying our habitat.
No other creature in
nature destroys its habitat
like we do, and we
think it's normal.
We need better
community, and I also
think that technology
is what's separating us.
It's divorcing us.
It's causing for
trolling, because we
can be extremely mean
behind a computer
to people that we would never
be that mean to in person.
So what's really
happening here is
we need more face-to-face,
real, human interaction.
We need more community.
We need to come together
under the arts, like music.
We need to think
more abstractly,
and we really need
to start questioning,
what is this grid, this
matrix, this control system
that we're in?
And I think that's
the reason why you'll
see fluoride in the water.
It was used in the Gulags
in the internment camps
to keep us docile.
I think that's why there's
so much distraction.
I have no problems with sport.
I think sport used
to be something
different in our
ancestral times,
because we used to
lift each other up
with our physical prowess
and our superhuman abilities.
>>NOORY: We will win, Ben.
We will.
>>STEWART: I totally believe so.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>STEWART: Thank you very much.
>>NOORY: Well, it's amazing
when you tie in psychedelics
to things that are happening
on this planet right now.
It makes a lot of sense,
and it's all about control,
and we need to make
sure we stop that.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."